Hello everyone and welcome to the while loops lecture for Scala programming this lecture going to learn
how to create a while loop in Scala and also learn how to use the break command which allows us to break
out of a loop based on some sort of condition.
Let's go ahead and jump to the text editor to get started.
All right.
Here I am at the text editor.
Let's go ahead and get started with some while loops.
In this case we're going to start off by creating a variable not a values.
We're going to use VR as our key word because we're actually going to be re-assigning disvalue.
Let's go in and say the variable x is equal to zero.
And then the while loop is going to say while you'll have a print C's here you'll say wow.
And then some sort of blink condition.
So we'll say while X is less than five curly braces here we'll print a few lines we'll say prints.
In this case I'm going to use this as formatting here.
Second actually type in the variable itself.
I'll say X is currently and then we'll say dollar sign X Close's print CS and then we'll say Crantz
Ellen and then we will say X is still less than 5.
Adding one to X and then finally we're going to go at once X will say x is equal to x plus 1.
Go ahead and save that and let's go in and run this and make sure it works for us.
And you've got to be careful when you're dealing with kloofs because if you accidentally have a while
loop that has infinitely true here you'll have an infinite while loop and you'll have to kill your terminal
in order to actually get your program to run.
So let's go ahead and load this Skala programming Skala script and know what we get out here and expand
this.
We can actually read it will end up getting X is currently 0 which makes sense it's a very first run
of this variable.
We print the line the X is still currently less than 5 at once X and then.
Here we actually add 1 to X execute this again and we keep going while this is true.
And then finally once x is equal to 5 it will no longer print these two statements and it will stop
this loop.
So that's the basics of a WHILE loop hopefully already pretty familiar with this concept.
It's just while put in your condition in your parentheses and then in this curly brackets whatever block
of code you want to actually execute.
Now let's discuss the break statement.
Skala doesn't actually have a built in break functionality.
You have to import it from its utility controls.
Let me go ahead and show you what I mean by that.
I'm going to delete these lines and say VAR of y is equal to zero.
And then before that actually going to import some functionality I will say import.
You'd still control loops not control dots and then capital B breaks dot underscore and with that import
statement I can import the break keyword so that Brakey word doesn't come just built into Skala.
You'll have to import it from its utility controls.
Then we set up this variable.
Why is equal to zero.
And then I'm going to go ahead and say while in a very similar fashion as we did earlier.
While Y is less than 10 curly braces Prince Allen and this case I'm going to do a very similar thing
I'll say why is currently and then Dollar Sign why so we get that current value of y and then I'm going
to go ahead and say print.
Ellen will say why is still less than 10 at one to why.
Going to go ahead and do that.
We'll say why is equal to Y plus one but I'm going to have an if statement here so I will say if y ever
becomes equal to 3 I will go ahead and in the same line I type in this break.
Keyword is just a lowercase break.
But this will only work as a keyword.
If you have this import statement this break keyword isn't builtin you have to import it from one to
Scalia's library.
So let's go ahead and save this interview interviewed this one more time before we run it.
Where importing utility control break stot underscore and then we're saying a variable of white will
say zero.
Because we choose a variable because we're going to be re-assigning it with line 8 here.
Now we're going to say a while.
Why is less than 10.
Print the current value of y.
If it's still less than 10 which means this while it is still happening we add on to why go ahead and
actually perform that operation that line 8 and then inline 9.
We say if y is equal to 3.
Go ahead and break out of this while loop.
So let's run this and make sure it works.
I'm going to expand this window a little bit.
And we'll go ahead and Skoll a program that Skala see what we get.
OK so what happens here if I just expand this a little more.
We get the import tool that controls break statement letting us know that we're importing something
we see why is an integer equal to zero.
And then we see 0 1 2 and notice that the moment why is it a 3.
We actually use this break control to break out of this loop.
OK so that's how you can use break if you ever need the sort of break operation from other languages
in languages such as Python breaks actually built in.
But Skala you're going to go ahead and have to import it.
Using this line right here and you can always reference the notes for this lecture in case you ever
want to reference that actual code.
And that's basically all there is to know for while loops.
Again be careful because if you run something that's always going to be true you'll have an infinite
running while loop.
Thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture.